hey folks this is Terry this is the
proto school weekly call for my 1/16
maybe somewhere I think that's right
when it is now where I am so we've been
working hard on fertile school this week
not been doing a good job of making
notes for a call so well we'll wing it a
little today in terms of so we can kind
of go through in the usual order so
content development itself is probably
probably me who's been doing the most on
that I've been continuing with the MF s
tutorial and making good progress I have
one little blocker right now which Ellie
is trying to help me get unstuck with
and then I have a little bit more
validation to add and then we should be
pretty close to having a first draft
hopefully within a week and then I would
love some testers to work through it and
let me know what's confusing or not and
whether the flow that we invented make
sense to people who didn't invent it um
but I really hope that's near innocent
in terms of more uxe things yoga what
have you been up to you actually
remember I know you've been doing stuff
yeah I have to take my notes it was yea
pretty minor stuff but I'm sure sure
they're not gonna do a live show in town
no yeah so yeah I forgot about this when
I think we added was now we have
supports oh yeah for those red angry yep
yeah when you log messages to the user
before you you basically just love
strings and right now you can make it a
bit prettier now you can love with
markdown yes
but yeah it's good yeah that's one of
the things I noticed also when I was
proofing that that trying to be good and
not put everything in the same issue but
we should go back to the first ones that
were built because I think Volker was
using that to do a lot of stuff that now
we would do in the log box so there
might be a few things where we want to
move some of what's in this success or
fail message to the log and where
there's a little more space to kind of
show and have more formatting of the
data when you are showing something more
complex yeah that makes sense
but it's not that's not something that's
urgent by them hmm
yeah but it's a nice addition to a super
minor innovative is not can you see oh
yeah yeah see I told you you did can you
guys see when i zoom
uh it's not getting bigger it's big
enough for me to see what I know Arlena
Jim can you tell what really do you know
what we know yeah previously we had this
little Lycan was a play play please
implied that that video will be playing
with uh so people got confused so I made
this little wagon yeah and yeah I don't
know if it was before or after the last
call but I fixed a problem with the alt
tags so it was if you used a screen
reader it was reading the in progress as
complete instead but it was cool that
when I used screen reader it works like
exactly the way we intended like lesson
one is please this one's in progress
this one's it started so yeah that's
cool what else do you yeah just when
horse that I've been working on as we we
already talked about it would be cool to
give the others the possibility to and
another lesson a final lesson for
wrapping up the tutorial basically or
linking to external sources like a
lesson that is just like next steps so
I've been working on that let me see
yeah so now we can create one I have
already updated the readme and there's
an open Pierre if you guys want to check
it out
this is filming I'm already fixing the
best then forgot something
so it's crashing but so you got an idea
now we have a final lesson that I I
named it resources it will have every on
every tutorial it will have the same
name we can change that I've done with
resources but we can have whatever a
little description here and when you
well you basically it's I've managed to
put it's like a separate question we are
on this tutorial there are three lessons
the resources personally I prefer having
resources instead of Lesson four because
it's really it's not a lesson so I ended
up doing lesson 3 of 3 and then you have
an X and then you come to the next steps
or resources or what do you think the
copy will be so this will be just my
cloud
it's only a markdown file you know go
ahead sir yeah so like my concern with
it being markdown is that it might be
too open-ended so what I what I want is
for this to be really concise earlier
like I want every author to use this in
the same way as each other so like one
for example one thing we could decide is
that this is there are certain headers
you can select from and then you're
giving it content to put in the bullets
like like places to contribute and other
tutorials or something something like
that where it's very structured and
everyone's will have the same format as
each other even though the content will
be different so we're giving more
guidance that's to like what's the right
way to use this because if really what
you're doing is writing about like if
you're just wrapping up the content that
shouldn't be this that should be a
separate like excellent lesson in your
thing this should always be like the
links out to learn more to go to the
next thing that makes sense for you to
try so I want to think of like what's
the most structure we can provide that
will make people use it consistently and
it's kind of questionable like exactly
how we want to accomplish that and how
it then translates into them making it
so they might be creating it using like
a JSON object or something depending
what we you know it's like the category
that it goes in and the chunks of
bullets or something instead of writing
freeform markdown do you know what I
mean yeah so worried I agree or or maybe
I don't agree okay
I think you the authors should have the
Liberty to write whatever but I agree on
the fact that if they just want to write
they can just create another lesson a
text-only lesson but if we want to make
it a bit more more scope and with the
same layout we have to define that
layout so I can put it in a component or
something like that right we defined it
what do you think Jim potentially I
don't know I've been research but like
you this might be a job for a schema or
something that you can do that you can
apply on the markdown so it's like it
has to validate so it's like you might
be like it has to have this section this
section this profit there's probably
some tools for that I don't really know
but you know that's a nice suggestion
here you could do something like that
I mean they're they're a variety of
things we could do so either they're
like three versions at least one is
totally open-ended like make a markdown
file and give it this name and it will
end up here and put whatever you want in
it that's something I don't want us to
do one is do go has built a component
that creates the last file and you pass
in like a JSON object and each thing is
like a title and a link and like the
kind of content it is right so like
article here's the title of the article
here's the link to the article something
like that or maybe like a category that
it's in so it's like um you know these
are horrible names but like websites
that use this feature like real life
applications of this in the wild or
other tutorials or other things in proto
school to go to or whatever like we
think of what those categories are and
then they put a category and then the
specific information like that they want
in each of these bulleted things and
then this would always like it would
only load the header if it had content
to go under it but it would be
structured so like these are the
categories in everything and then you
just click on the thing you wanna go to
like the way the chapters
works it checks whether they're you know
it figures out what needs to actually be
presented but everyone's giving
providing the same kind of information
to make it create itself the in between
would be if we if we were not going to
be that structured and we're gonna have
them use markdown then we should be
providing a template that's precisely
the way we want it like is there a loose
paragraph at the top or like a set
paragraph of introductory text like hey
it's time to learn more and then headers
that we want them to use and they're
already in like all the markdown is
there and there is a sample bullet that
says like name of article linked to
article whatever that is all written out
and they're replacing the content with
what they want but they would then some
of them would try to do something
completely different and we've kept in
the proofing process catch it and say
please don't do that
some of them would use it as we intend
and actually replace it with relevant
content some of them would not want to
use the fourth category of stuff and
they just delete it or whatever and
again we'd catch it in the proofing if
they were doing something far off but I
think the more whatever we want it to
come out as we want to get as close to
that as possible at the time that
they're building it so we don't end up
having the back and forth and making
them feel like they've wasted time
coming up with just a new format if we
didn't want them to do it in that format
and I really want the consistency to
make the site feel cohesive yeah well
consistency wise I would say as they
already have to to put things on JSON
files the best would be adjacent as you
said yeah next but do we want to allow
or I guess the question would be like
for each resource what are you providing
like there's there and then does does
any of that need markdown like we would
be obviously it would come out formatted
from the JSON stuff that they put in but
I think the only reason we need markdown
is if we let them do a description and
there's
some reads in the description might need
it so it might be that you know like
previously I had suggested like each
resource goes in a bullet and it has
like a title and a link and a kind of
thing it is right and maybe that's like
some little colored symbol that says
article in some different color that
says whatever like what tags or however
we want to think about it if we wanted
to also have each thing either all of
them or optionally have like a
description field to say more about what
the thing is that's the only place I can
think of where they might have some
reason to use no but I don't really want
them but then but then they can use it
to kind of mess with the formatting so
if they're gonna do it through JSON I
feel like okay the description is just
gonna be plain text that comes out in
the font we chose for it to come out in
and the headers are gonna come out so we
don't want them to use markdown to make
their description look like that header
or something right yeah yeah every we
want to make it strict so Jason yeah
yeah and yeah I mean we'll get this is a
feature that we will get feedback on and
we'll implement it so we'll just build
you know build it in a way that like we
know that we're going to want it to be
consistent but we'll build it in a way
that it will be easy for us to change
what tags exist or what categories exist
or rename the categories or whatever as
we get feedback from people about how
they actually want to be using it I
don't know does that make sense does it
sound okay to you guys yeah yeah and one
thing that worries me about this is I
think people will end up not using this
and just creating a new text on realizin
to wrap up what they want to wrap up I
think that's real possibility so I think
we'll be a man I think it's a mandatory
feature is it a feature if it's
mandatory I think it's a I think it's a
thing that every lesson will have and
they can also put like if they want to
have a text only thing as lesson
whatever are you saying that you wish
that didn't have a lesson number on it
if they had it so let's say they have
like four coding challenges that right
now would be lessons one to four and
then they have like a text wrap up that
like ties it all together right now that
would be lesson five which would be a
text it might be a text only lesson or
they could do with multiple-choice or
something soon once we invent that if
they want to have that there some people
are going to kind of have that built
into the last the text of the last thing
they're actually teaching and then this
would be the resources so the other
option would be if your concern is about
that text being called a lesson when
it's not and exercise we could make a
category that's like rap so like lesson
whatever lesson whatever lesson whatever
wrap up and then resources and wrap up
would be just a text it would be a text
only file that prints a different name
instead of printing lesson it prints the
words wrap up but you would make it
using the text only template but if
someone submitted that to me
one submitted a workshop and did that
and didn't also include the resources
page I would ask them to go back and
make it like I think I think we want it
to be built into the thing and I think
as we add this feature we want to go
back and add these pages for the other
ones people will disagree about what the
content should be and we can update it
as we go
but we want to make it so that as soon
as we merge this BR every thing that
already exists has one of these and
everything moving forward has a
resources page that's that's my vision
for it okay can you do me a huge favor
then write up in an issue the template
that's your heaven way yeah I guess I
can take a first stab at it and then we
can see how what people disagree with
and then we can go from there okay yeah
does that did it did I get out what what
your concern was with like the last the
labeling of the last thing I don't have
a strong opinion right Jim any words of
advice on this beyond what you already
suggested I'm not familiar enough with
what's there I mean this is gonna be the
opportunity like a lot of times people
suggest content that doesn't work like
that won't yet work be supported by
protocol right like if you want to teach
a command line thing that doesn't work
in protocol right now and the compromise
is like hey that's a great idea you have
this great resource build it somewhere
else and we can link to it from the
closest related thing right you can do
this and then you can go and build a
whole G app with the new skills you
learned by going outside to the site so
that's the main purpose is like letting
people get get references to some
content that lives outside of proto
school and can't fit in pro school or
does it make sense to and just have ways
to feel like this is this continued
journey and you're not you can choose to
be done if you want to when you're done
with our lessons
you don't need to be there's always more
out there to learn so I mean that's the
point of it so however we accomplished
that um cool
anything else on the UX side trying to
think whether I've been doing anything I
don't know
and then chap on the kind of chapter
organizing side there are a few requests
for new chapters that are queued up that
I need to circle around and dig into and
get to maybe next week have some time to
set up some more chapters repos for
people um and I was just talking to
ollie and he has offered to take the
first stab at setting up or probably
using the countly account that we have
for ipfs to set up some measurement
stuff so being able to figure out page
views and it has an idea for how you
work around the fact that because it's a
single page application it's really on
only one page there's like things you
can put in the router so it triggers an
event that makes it that makes countly
see it as a different page view or
whatever so that's totally for people
who haven't seen it it's like an
alternative to Google Analytics that may
be less scary for people who hear the
phrase and that's where we'll also track
things like did you need to push on the
reset code button or did you push to
view the solution and that will help us
figure out which lessons are too hard
the page views will help us figure out
which lessons are most popular all of
that stuff and we could probably also
track did you click the thing at the
bottom that says that you have a
question we can get a sense of that
obviously from the issues that come in
but it from the knees so maybe you
waited check us or two
yeah so all the offer to take that on
and then I think the next big thing that
we want to prioritize a lot of the work
that we're doing right now is as a
lead-up to ipfs camp which for anyone
watching apply by tomorrow because then
you won't be able to go for ipfs camp
which is in Barcelona June 27 to 30 yes
um so I've had conversations with Lydell
and Alan about what they might do which
would be pretty light on protal school
if they do anything it would be more
likely to be like text or multiple
choice things but I'm just you know
staying in those conversations to see
what content we might have coming
through in which case one of our big
priorities will be to help them get that
stuff through help proof it help with
any questions they have about building
it but the next UX feature that we need
to focus on after the the thing that
you're doing right now yoga is being
able to have multiple choice lessons as
a format so that's something that I
would have fun doing either myself or
pairing and to try to make that an
option for people and that's something
that Alan might be interested in using
for camp so we want to try to at least
start on it next week I'd say yeah
anything else in proto school land that
we want to talk about or related pro
school related adjacent do you have any
adjacent things you want to talk about
Jim really got some ideas but let me
leave that for another another meeting
okay yeah and I think a lot of ideas
will come out of camp too I think it
would be nice it's a big ass but I think
it would be really nice for us to get to
the point where even though we don't
have the content built we have kind of a
tree of what is the content we hope
we'll get built so that people who are
interested in building but don't have
their own idea for content or maybe they
have an idea but their idea I can't yet
be supported and proto school but hey
pick from these things which can be so
that's something that I hope we could
create before ipfs camp and iterate on
while we're there the
get those ideas down and some of them
will be things that we can do with the
state of the state right now even if we
don't have time to but there they can be
done within the current scope and some
of them will be things that are
currently out of scope and we can decide
whether or not to change the system to
make them in scope but I think that's
something that will be helpful to get
more contributors as having a few issues
that people could take if they want to
um yep anything else people want to chat
about alrighty
oh yeah I bet none of us were taking
notes Oh that'll be fun
I'll go about and see if I can remember
anything or a drop if you remember you
showed us something go drop it in the
notes and then I'll go back and fill in
whatever I remember and then share the
video and the notes everyone these notes
by the way live in the roadmap repo in
the proto school org if anybody is
looking for them so yeah that's it for
me today and we'll see you all next week
and then there are a lot of proto school
chapter leaders who have been accepted
for ipfs Gann so I'm excited to see some
of them there should be good cool talk
to you guys later thanks for all the
hard work Diogo damn I'm sure you're
doing hard work it's hey guys